README.md, before:

# ECSE 351 GNU Problem Set
<br>Alden Salmons
<br>April 18th, 2025

# Problem: Baba Yaga's Hut Simulation
- User can vary amplitude, frequency, and phase
- See time domain and phasor views

Create a block diagram with a GUI that simulates the Phase Lab. In the GUI, the user should be able
to vary the amplitude, frequency and phase of a signal, and see the time domain and phasor view in real
time. (Consider the QT GUI Vector Sink block.) An excellent version will be used in future curriculum,
with acknowledgment of your work.

# Approach
- UI designed for 1920 x 1080p display (minus taskbar), should also scale well for similar aspect ratios
    - Maximize area of Time Series and XY Plot in UI
- Amplitude, frequency, and phase control
    - Use QT GUI Dial blocks
    - Separate controls for each parameter and signal (Y1 and Y2)
    - Ranges and steps
        - Amplitude: 0 to 1, step of 0.01, default 1
        - Frequency: 0 to 5 Hz, step of 0.1 Hz, default
- Signal Generation
    - Generate sine waves from two Signal Source blocks
    - Parameters controlled by Dials
- Time Series
    - QT GUI Time Sink block
    - 4s Window
-     

# Difficulties
- Phase difference drifts slightly over simulation time
    - Does global sampling rate have anything to do with this?
    - Solution: Will have to combine both signal sources (so the two signals are phase-locked)
- Changing the Delay on the Time Sink Control Panel can cause the UI to crash
    - Will keep controls for now because very useful
- Can't update Time Sink parameters live (Other than Control Panel)
- 

# References
1. GNU Radio Wiki https://wiki.gnuradio.org/index.php/Main_Page
2. Chat GPT (https://chatgpt.com/)
    1. Advice on color selection
    2. Troubleshooting stream to vector block
    3. Advice to use constellation block for XY plot

Commit message:

Reinstated constellation sink, made updates to Read Me

README.md, after:

# ECSE 351 GNU Problem Set
<br>Alden Salmons
<br>April 18th, 2025

# Problem: Baba Yaga's Hut Simulation
- User can vary amplitude, frequency, phase, and offset of two signals
- See time domain and phasor views

Create a block diagram with a GUI that simulates the Phase Lab. In the GUI, the user should be able
to vary the amplitude, frequency and phase of a signal, and see the time domain and phasor view in real
time. (Consider the QT GUI Vector Sink block.) An excellent version will be used in future curriculum,
with acknowledgment of your work.

# Approach
- UI designed for 19 x 10 aspect ratio (1080p minus taskbar and menu bar)
    - Maximize area of Time Series and XY Plot in UI
    - Keep XY Plot as square as possible
- Signal source control
    - Use QT GUI Dial blocks
    - Separate controls for each parameter and signal (Y1 and Y2)
    - Ranges and steps
        - Amplitude: 0 to 1, step of 0.01, default 1
        - Frequency: 0 to 5 Hz, step of 0.1 Hz, default 0.5 Hz
        - (Initial) Phase: 0 to 360 degress, step of 5 degress, default 90 degrees between Y1 and Y2
- Signal Generation
    - Generate sine waves from two Signal Source blocks
    - Parameters controlled by Dials
- Time Series
    - QT GUI Time Sink block
    - 4s Window
- XY Plot
    - Converted Signal 1 and Signal 2 from float to one complex stream
    - Used Constellation Sink block, displays 10s of data (Maximum period of either signal)
- Multiplication: Multiply signals in float stream, add as separate input to Time Sink

# Difficulties
- Phase difference drifts slightly over simulation time
    - Does global sampling rate have anything to do with this?
- Phase accumulation from changing and reverting frequency
    - Need to zero phase manually
    - Makes it difficult to set absolute phase difference
    - Will have to add note to instructions
- Changing the Delay on the Time Sink Control Panel can cause the UI to crash
    - Will keep controls for now because very useful
- Changing x scale of Time Sink can cause simulation to freeze
    - Makes it difficult to see effects of AM
- Can't update Time Sink parameters live (Other than Control Panel)

# File Versions
- phase_lab_v1.grc
    - Initial attempt, generated two signals in separate signal blocks
    - Noticed phase issues, tried to resolve with attempt 2
- phase_lab_v2.grc
    - Changed to two complex signal sources, applied frequency and phase shift blocks
    - 

# References
1. GNU Radio Wiki https://wiki.gnuradio.org/index.php/Main_Page
2. Chat GPT (https://chatgpt.com/)
    1. Advice on color selection
    2. Troubleshooting stream to vector
    3. Advice to use constellation block for XY plot
